My hypothetical application is written in Python. The idea of CI is to make sure that certain things in the code are checked before the code is allowed to be merged to the main branch or deployed to customers; namely keeping the code maintainable (linting), making sure no existing features are broken (testing) and preparing the code to be run in production (building). Further, CI will allow a team of developers to work together in an organized manner making sure they will not overwrite each other's changes.

For Python, the most popular all-around linters include Pylint and Flake8. In addition, there are linters designed for specific practices, such as type checking (e.g. MyPy), documentation (e.g. pydocstyle) and security issues (e.g. Bandit). Python has a standard unit testing library/framework called unittest/PyUnit, but there are also external framework options such as Pytest, nose2 and Testify. Each framework is optimized for slightly different uses. Python is an interpreted language, which means that it does not need to be compiled; thus no separate build step is needed.

CI options besides Jenkins and GitHub Actions include e.g. CircleCI, Travis CI and GitLab. Some of these offer both on-premise and cloud services and some only the other. In addition, the billing schemes differ.

Whether the CI pipeline should be maintained on premise or in a cloud service depends on the size and complexity of the project. For a small or medium size, relatively standard software project, a cloud service may be the simpler and less expensive option. On the other hand, in a complex or specialized project, a cloud service's options may be too limited. In a large project and if there is know-how for maintaining an on premise server, this may be cheaper and provides more flexibility with regards to e.g. resource usage. In addition, hosting the setup on premise may be more secure, if the project handles sensitive information.